pkgs/experimental/layout_engine/README.md, before:

![Swarmauri Logo](https://github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/blob/3d4d1cfa949399d7019ae9d8f296afba773dfb7f/assets/swarmauri.brand.theme.svg)

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - Downloads"/></a>
    <a href="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/layout_engine/">
        <img alt="Hits" src="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/layout_engine.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - Python Version"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - License"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/layout-engine?label=layout-engine&color=green" alt="PyPI - layout-engine"/></a>
</p>

---

# Layout Engine (Core)

`layout-engine` is a Swiss Grid design inspired, format-agnostic rendering engine that powers Server-Side Rendering (SSR), Static Site Generation (SSG), and offline exports from a unified component model. The package provides strongly-typed contracts for sites, pages, grids, tiles, and component registries so downstream applications can orchestrate layouts without being tied to a specific UI framework.

> **Python compatibility:** officially supports Python 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12.

## Features

- **Contract-driven architecture** – abstract base classes define the interfaces for rendering, exporting, and serving layout primitives.
- **Atomic component & micro-frontend registries** – manage SSR-ready components and remote module manifests with predictable defaults.
- **Format agnostic targets** – render HTML, SVG, PDF, and code artifacts using interchangeable exporters.
- **Extensible site composition** – compose grids, tiles, and slots declaratively with Pydantic specs for validation and serialization.
- **Optional realtime bridge** – opt into FastAPI, Uvicorn, and WebSocket extras for live preview or event streaming.

## Installation

Choose the workflow that matches your tooling. Extras are available for realtime server capabilities (`server`) and PDF generation (`pdf`).

```bash
# uv
uv add layout-engine
uv add layout-engine[server]  # for FastAPI/WebSocket extras
uv add layout-engine[pdf]     # for Playwright-powered exports

# pip
pip install layout-engine
pip install "layout-engine[server]"
pip install "layout-engine[pdf]"
```

## Quick Start

```python
from layout_engine import (
    ComponentRegistry,
    ComponentSpec,
    SizeToken,
    TileSpec,
    Viewport,
    block,
    col,
    quick_manifest_from_table,
    row,
    table,
)
from layout_engine.targets.media import HtmlExporter

components = ComponentRegistry()
components.register(ComponentSpec(role="stat", module="@demo/metric"))

tiles = [
    TileSpec(id="stat_revenue", role="stat", props={"label": "Revenue", "value": "$1.2M"}),
    TileSpec(id="stat_growth", role="stat", props={"label": "Growth", "value": "18%"}),
]

layout = table(
    row(
        col(block("stat_revenue"), size=SizeToken.m),
        col(block("stat_growth"), size=SizeToken.m),
    )
)

manifest = quick_manifest_from_table(
    layout,
    Viewport(width=960, height=540),
    tiles,
    components_registry=components,
)

HtmlExporter(title="Stats Overview").export(manifest, out="stats.html")
```

The manifest merges component defaults with any props provided on `TileSpec`
instances, so runtime components receive fully-prepared payloads.

### Examples

A runnable end-to-end script lives in [`examples/dashboard.py`](./examples/dashboard.py).
Execute it with:

```bash
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine python examples/dashboard.py
```

The script prints the compiled manifest summary and writes a styled HTML preview
next to the script for quick visual inspection.

## Core Concepts

- **First-class objects** – `site`, `page`, `slot`, `grid`, `tile`, `component`, and `remote` provide the building blocks for any layout.
- **Contracts** – objects expose `.render(...)`, `.export(...)`, and optional `.server(...)` methods to support SSR, SSG, and service endpoints.
- **Registries** – manage atomic component defaults and micro-frontend remotes with predictable merge semantics.

## Development

```bash
uv sync --all-extras
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine ruff check .
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine pytest -q
```

## License

Apache License 2.0. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for full terms.

Commit message:

Add quick-start example for layout_engine

pkgs/experimental/layout_engine/README.md, after:

![Swarmauri Logo](https://github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/blob/3d4d1cfa949399d7019ae9d8f296afba773dfb7f/assets/swarmauri.brand.theme.svg)

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - Downloads"/></a>
    <a href="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/layout_engine/">
        <img alt="Hits" src="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/layout_engine.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - Python Version"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/layout-engine" alt="PyPI - License"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/layout-engine/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/layout-engine?label=layout-engine&color=green" alt="PyPI - layout-engine"/></a>
</p>

---

# Layout Engine (Core)

`layout-engine` is a Swiss Grid design inspired, format-agnostic rendering engine that powers Server-Side Rendering (SSR), Static Site Generation (SSG), and offline exports from a unified component model. The package provides strongly-typed contracts for sites, pages, grids, tiles, and component registries so downstream applications can orchestrate layouts without being tied to a specific UI framework.

> **Python compatibility:** officially supports Python 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12.

## Features

- **Contract-driven architecture** – abstract base classes define the interfaces for rendering, exporting, and serving layout primitives.
- **Atomic component & micro-frontend registries** – manage SSR-ready components and remote module manifests with predictable defaults.
- **Format agnostic targets** – render HTML, SVG, PDF, and code artifacts using interchangeable exporters.
- **Extensible site composition** – compose grids, tiles, and slots declaratively with Pydantic specs for validation and serialization.
- **Optional realtime bridge** – opt into FastAPI, Uvicorn, and WebSocket extras for live preview or event streaming.

## Installation

Choose the workflow that matches your tooling. Extras are available for realtime server capabilities (`server`) and PDF generation (`pdf`).

```bash
# uv
uv add layout-engine
uv add layout-engine[server]  # for FastAPI/WebSocket extras
uv add layout-engine[pdf]     # for Playwright-powered exports

# pip
pip install layout-engine
pip install "layout-engine[server]"
pip install "layout-engine[pdf]"
```

## Quick Start

```python
from layout_engine import (
    ComponentRegistry,
    ComponentSpec,
    SizeToken,
    TileSpec,
    Viewport,
    block,
    col,
    quick_manifest_from_table,
    row,
    table,
)
from layout_engine.targets.media import HtmlExporter

components = ComponentRegistry()
components.register(ComponentSpec(role="stat", module="@demo/metric"))

tiles = [
    TileSpec(id="stat_revenue", role="stat", props={"label": "Revenue", "value": "$1.2M"}),
    TileSpec(id="stat_growth", role="stat", props={"label": "Growth", "value": "18%"}),
]

layout = table(
    row(
        col(block("stat_revenue"), size=SizeToken.m),
        col(block("stat_growth"), size=SizeToken.m),
    )
)

manifest = quick_manifest_from_table(
    layout,
    Viewport(width=960, height=540),
    tiles,
    components_registry=components,
)

HtmlExporter(title="Stats Overview").export(manifest, out="stats.html")
```

The manifest merges component defaults with any props provided on `TileSpec`
instances, so runtime components receive fully-prepared payloads.

### Examples

- [`examples/basic_usage.py`](./examples/basic_usage.py) – minimal quick-start
  script that writes a manifest JSON file and exports an HTML preview.
- [`examples/dashboard.py`](./examples/dashboard.py) – larger end-to-end demo
  showcasing multiple roles and a custom theme.

Run either script with:

```bash
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine python examples/basic_usage.py
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine python examples/dashboard.py
```

Both scripts print their output locations so you can open the generated
artifacts directly from the repository.

## Core Concepts

- **First-class objects** – `site`, `page`, `slot`, `grid`, `tile`, `component`, and `remote` provide the building blocks for any layout.
- **Contracts** – objects expose `.render(...)`, `.export(...)`, and optional `.server(...)` methods to support SSR, SSG, and service endpoints.
- **Registries** – manage atomic component defaults and micro-frontend remotes with predictable merge semantics.

## Development

```bash
uv sync --all-extras
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine ruff check .
uv run --directory experimental/layout_engine --package layout-engine pytest -q
```

## License

Apache License 2.0. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for full terms.
