pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental/README.md, before:

# Swarmauri Experimental

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - Downloads"/></a>
    <a href="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental/">
        <img alt="Hits" src="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - Python Version"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - License"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/swarmauri-experimental?label=swarmauri-experimental&color=green" alt="PyPI - swarmauri-experimental"/></a>
</p>

---

Commit message:

Convert experimental package to uv-style and mark inactive

pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental/README.md, after:

![Swamauri Logo](https://github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/blob/master/assets/swarmauri.brand.theme.svg)

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - Downloads"/></a>
    <a href="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental/">
        <img alt="Hits" src="https://hits.sh/github.com/swarmauri/swarmauri-sdk/tree/master/pkgs/experimental/swarmauri_experimental.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - Python Version"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/swarmauri-experimental" alt="PyPI - License"/></a>
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/swarmauri-experimental/">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/swarmauri-experimental?label=swarmauri-experimental&color=green" alt="PyPI - swarmauri-experimental"/></a>
</p>

---

# Swarmauri Experimental

> ⚠️ **Inactive Package**
>
> Experimental packages are now released as standalone distributions. Further support for the `swarmauri-experimental` namespace package is not planned.
